Acceptable incompetence

I was interviewed by a team lead and a director-level executive. They were very friendly and seemed competent, and the interview was not difficult. Within a month of my onboarding both individuals who interviewed me had left the company.

The day to day consisted of very mundane routine maintenance type work. Occasionally there was a major initiative that was really hyped up and took some work, and every time they quietly dragged on and then failed. Management was never transparent about the reasons.

The replacement for the executive who interviewed me was a referral hire who had no background in finance or technology and no experience with the work our team did, things that became very obvious after 10 minutes of conversation. But he had many years of management experience, spoke very highly of himself as a "shake things up and fix stuff" kind of leader, and supposedly had people skills to make up for it. Early into the relationship he declared things like how he knows programmers like to "write lots of if statements" and he was going to personally ensure we did things "properly," and then cited some factoids about the Roman Empire that I was not able to verify using the internet. For the next quarter and change we worked on his pet project trying to modernize many parts of the system at once (ie. very high risk of failure), including some claims that should raise eyebrows even for novices (ie. if you read the manual for the tools they were pitching somewhere among the introductory sections it would say not to do the things we were trying to do). He also referred some of his friends to act as consultants and vouch for his ideas in meetings. I spoke up and recommended a different direction at multiple points, but the minds were made up and resistance was strong. I found it striking how in meetings it normal for team members to quietly listen to nonsense with a slightly pensive frown, maybe ask a question or two then return to the 'quiet but pensive' expression without criticizing. The project stalled for months without progress, and certain individuals were not doing any work. 

Eventually I got fed up and took the initiative to build a prototype of the thing we wanted to build. After about a week I gave a demo and got very good feedback from my team and my direct manager. The aforementioned executive then pulled me into an impromptu meeting where he hinted that I was making him look bad, then gave me feedback along the lines of "this is all your fault, you need to work on your sales skills" because sales is a critical skill and selling is everyone's job even if you aren't in a sales role (the implication of course was that I should have sold him on my idea much earlier despite the enormous difference between us in influence).

It turns out this feedback perfectly sums up the real working culture at OANDA. Management puts all their focus into optics and "sales skills," they exchange political favors like advocating for each others' ideas in meetings or vouching for each other as "very hard workers," and hide behind things like "time zone differences" to excuse incompetence. Truth has no place at the table in working environments like this, and this is certainly not an environment to learn or grow your skillset. Almost every skill I picked up or enhanced while working here I did by taking my own initiative or on my own time after hours. 

It's no wonder the only way they know how to move the balance sheet is to screw over employees (and clients too, if you look at the sudden shift in the company's regulatory compliance record over the last 5 years) and through on-and-off bouts of outsourcing. 