I was interviewed by a team lead and a director-level executive. They were very friendly and seemed competent, and the interview was not difficult. Within a month of my onboarding both individuals who interviewed me had left the company.

The day to day consisted of very mundane routine maintenance type work. Occasionally there was a major initiative that was really hyped up and took some work, and every time they quietly dragged on and then failed. Management was never transparent about the reasons.

The replacement for the executive who interviewed me was a referral hire who had no background in finance or technology and no experience with the work our team did, things that became very obvious after 10 minutes of conversation. But he had many years of experience in management, thought very highly of himself as a "shake things up and fix stuff" kind of leader, and supposedly had people skills to make up for it. Early into the relationship he declared things like how he knows programmers like to "write lots of if statements" and he was going to personally ensure we did things "properly," and then cited some factoids about the Roman Empire that I was not able to verify using the internet. For the next quarter and a bit we were working on a pet project that tried to modernize many parts of the system at once (ie. very high risk of failure), including some claims that should have raised eyebrows even if one was a novice (they were based on misunderstandings and were never going to deliver the promised value). He also referred some of his friends to act as consultants and vouch for his ideas in meetings. I personally spoke up and recommended a different direction at multiple points, but the minds were made up and resistance was strong. I did notice that in meetings it was far more normal for team members to quietly listen to the nonsense with a very slight, pensive frown, ask a critical question or two, then return to the 'quiet but pensive' expression. The project stalled for months and made no progress despite some theatrical efforts.

Eventually I got fed up and took the initiative to build a prototype of the thing we wanted to build. After about a week I gave a demo and got very good feedback from my team and my direct manager. The aforementioned executive then pulled me into an impromptu meeting where he hinted that I was making him look bad, then gave me feedback along the lines of "this is all your fault, you need to work on your sales skills" because selling a critical skill and is everyone's responsibility even if you are not in a sales role.

This feedback perfectly sums up what it's like to work at OANDA. Management puts all their focus into optics and "sales skills," they exchange political favors like referrals and advocating for each others' ideas in meetings and hide behind things like "time zone differences" to excuse incompetence. This is not a working environment where truth matters, and certainly not an environment to learn or grow your skillset. No wonder the only way they know how to move the balance sheet is to underpay people and through on-and-off rounds of outsourcing. 