I was interviewed by a team lead and a director-level executive. They were very friendly and seemed competent, and the interview was not difficult. Within 1 month of me coming on board, both individuals who interviewed me had left.

The day to day consisted of very mundane routine maintenance type work. Occasionally there was a major initiative that was really hyped up and took some work, and every time they quietly dragged on and then failed and management was not at all transparent about the reasons.

The new executive who came was a referral who had no background in finance or technology and no experience with the work our team did, a fact that would become very obvious with a 15 minute conversation. Regardless he was very outgoing and saw himself as a "shake everything up and fix things" type of leader. He proudly declared things like how he knows programmers to do things like "write lots of if statements" and said he was going to make sure we did things properly. For the next quarter and a bit my team was put on a pet project that aimed to modernize many things at once (ie. high risk of failure), including some claims that should have raised eyebrows even if one was a novice (they were based on misunderstandings and were never going to deliver the promised value). While I personally spoke up and recommended a different direction I did notice that in meetings it was far more normal for team members to quietly listen to the nonsense with a very slight, pensive frown, ask a critical question or two, then return to the 'quiet but pensive' expression. The executive was not receptive to the feedback and the project stalled for months without progress.

Eventually I got fed up and took the initiative to build a prototype of the thing we wanted to build. It took me a few weeks, then I gave a demo that got very good feedback from my team. The aforementioned executive later pulled me into a meeting where he hinted that I was making him look bad, then gave me feedback along the lines of "this is all your fault, you need to work on your sales skills" because selling a critical skill and is everyone's responsibility even if you are not in a sales role.

This feedback perfectly sums up what it's like to work at OANDA. Management puts all their focus into optics and "sales skills," they exchange political favors like referrals and advocating for each others' ideas in meetings and hide behind things like "time zone differences" to excuse incompetence. This is not a working environment where truth matters, and certainly not an environment to learn or grow your skillset. No wonder the only way they know how to move the balance sheet is to underpay people and through on-and-off rounds of outsourcing. 